
AWS Landing Zone is a solution that helps customers more quickly set up a secure, multi-account AWS environment based on AWS best
practices. With the large number of design choices, setting up a multi-account environment can take a significant amount of time,
involve the configuration of multiple accounts and services, and require a deep understanding of AWS services.

This solution saves time by automating the set-up of an environment for running secure and scalable workloads while implementing an 
initial securitybaseline through the creation of core accounts and resources. It also provides a baseline environment to get started
with a multi-account architecture,identity and access management, governance, data security, network design, and logging.

The AWS Landing Zone deploys an AWS Account Vending Machine (AVM) product for provisioning and automatically configuring new accounts. 
The AVM leverages AWS Single Sign-On (SSO) for managing user account access. This environment is customizable to allow customers to 
implement their own account baselines through a Landing Zone configuration and update pipeline.
The AWS Landing Zone includes four accounts, and add-on products that can be deployed using the AWS Service Catalog such as the 
Centralized Logging solution and AWS Managed AD and Directory Connector for AWS SSO.

The AWS Landing Zone is deployed into an AWS Organizations account. This account is used to manage configuration and access to AWS
Landing Zone managed accounts. The AWS Organizations account provides the ability to create and financially manage member accounts. 
It contains the AWS Landing Zone configuration Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket and pipeline, account configuration 
StackSets, AWS Organizations Service Control Policies (SCPs), and AWS Single Sign-On (SSO) configuration.
Shared Services account
The Shared Services account is a reference for creating infrastructure shared services such as directory services. By default, this 
account hosts AWS Managed Active Directory for AWS SSO integration in a shared Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) that can
be automatically peered with new AWS accounts created with the Account Vending Machine (AVM).
Log Archive account
The Log Archive account contains a central Amazon S3 bucket for storing copies of all AWS CloudTrail and AWS Config log files in 
a log archive account.
Security account
The Security account creates auditor (read-only) and administrator (full-access) cross-account roles from a Security account to 
all AWS Landing Zone managed accounts. The intent of these roles is to be used by a company's security and compliance team to 
audit or perform emergency security operationsin case of an incident.
This account is also designated as the master Amazon GuardDuty account. Users from the master account can configure GuardDuty 
as well as view andmanage GuardDuty findings for their own account and all of their member accounts.

AWS Landing Zone Security
The AWS Landing Zone solution includes an initial security baseline that can be used as a starting point for establishing and 
implementing a customized account security baseline for your organization. By default, the initial security baseline includes the 
following settings:
One CloudTrail trail is created in each account and configured to send logs to a centrally managed Amazon Simple Storage Service
(Amazon S3) bucket in the log archive account, and to AWS CloudWatch Logs in the local account for local operations 
(with a 14-day log group retention policy).
AWS Config is enabled and account configuration log files are stored in a centrally managed Amazon S3 bucket in the log archive account.
AWS Config rules are enabled for monitoring storage encryption (Amazon Elastic Block Store, Amazon S3, and Amazon Relational Database 
Service), 
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) password policy, root account multi-factor authentication (MFA), Amazon S3 public read and 
write, and insecure security group rules.AWS Identity and Access Management is used to configure an IAM password policy.
Cross-Account Access
Cross-account access is used to configure audit and emergency security administrative access to AWS Landing Zone accounts from the 
security account.
Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
An Amazon VPC configures the initial network for an account. This includes deleting the default VPC in all regions, deploying the
AVM requested network type, and network peering with the Shared Services VPC when applicable.
AWS Landing Zone Notifications
Amazon CloudWatch alarms and events are configured to send a notification on root account login, console sign-in failures, and API 
authentication failures within an account.

